Are you considering a leaseback?
A leaseback, also called a Seller’s
Temporary Lease, allows you to
sell your home and remain in it
for a short period after closing.
In Texas, this is handled using a
standardized lease agreement and
is limited to no more than 60 days.
Once the sale closes, you
are no longer the homeowner.
You become a tenant, and the
buyer becomes your landlord.
All terms are negotiated upfront,
including the length of the stay,
daily rent, security deposit,
utilities, and the move out date.
The buyer carries homeowner’s insurance
on the property, while you are required
to carry renter’s insurance for your
personal belongings and liability.
Rent and any security deposit
are typically paid at closing and
handled through the title company.
It is important to understand that not all
buyers or their lenders allow leasebacks.
Some lenders prohibit them entirely, and
some buyers need possession immediately.
As a result, requiring a leaseback
will most likely limit your potential
buyer pool and can prevent a
transaction from moving forward.
A leaseback can be useful when
your next home is not ready or
you need extra time to move.
However, as a general rule, we discourage
sellers from requiring leasebacks
unless they are truly necessary.